METHODS OF REASONING.                                      1

FIRST METHOD. {add}The simple consequence,{/add}

{del}[unclear: A proposition which might]
[unclear: rightly be believed for]
[illegible]{/del}

Reasoning is accepting something as true,
while recognizing some other proposition already accepted
as the reason for it. By a proposition, is meant, in logic,
anything which can be held for true, or can be supposed
to be so held. By recognizing a proposition as a reason
for another, is meant recognizing that the belief in the
former proposition causes a belief in the second, and ought
to do so, if we wish to adhere to the truth. The rudest
kind of reasoning consists in recognizing one proposition
as the reason for another, without recognizing any definite
relation between them which should make one the reason
for the other. A proposition accepted on account of a reason
is called a conclusionand is said to be inferred from that
reason, which is called the premise of the inference.
Let A and B denote two propositions : then such an inference
as we are speaking of may be written, "A, therefore B."
This inference is called a simple consequence. Its premise
or reason is called the antecedent : its conclusion the
consequent. The law or principle according to which one
proposition causes a belief in the other, say such a propo-
sition as "If A is true, B is true," is called, like the
process of inference, itself, the consequence. In a very
unreflecting state of mind, we may not recognize the con-
sequence, as a premise : although we must have some feeling
that there is such a consequence, for without this we should
not regard the one belief as causing the other. I hear someone
make some statement, and immediately jump to a belief in
what he says, without stopping to consider whether he is
a veracious witness or not. Again, I see a magician put
a pocket-handkerchief in a box, and am unreflectingly led
to believe it remains in the box, five minutes after, without
asking myself whether that is what generally happens in
the case of magicians' tricks, or not.

A simple consequence may really be sound (or as the
technical phrase is, valid) reasoning because the principle
by which one belief causes the other, though not recognized
as a premise, may really be of such a kind that it will
never lead from truth to error ; but it is, as the logicians
say, very incomplete reasoning, because there is no securi-
ty that it is sound, no sufficient reason is given to prevent
the possibility of error.* There is but one kind of simple
consequence which completely justifies itself,-- if it can
be called reasoning at all. It is an inference of the form,
"A, therefore A." To continue to believe a thing because
we have already accepted it (while always holding ourselves
ready to reexamine it, if there be any motive for doing
so) is perfectly logical proceeding not open to criticism.

* Another recognized mode of expressing this is to say that B
may follow from A, but does not follow logically; also that A may be
a reason of B but is not a logical reason.