17

        of a given description may have been actually employed or it may not.
      In any case, it is as a posibility, as a possible description, we
      will suppose, of a physical motion, that it is a sign of a state of
      feeling.  I call that a qualisign.  Chiaroscuro is a qualisign.
      The word il may occur twenty times on an Italian page.  Each occur-
      rence of it is a separate sign, and all the occurrences are instances
      of one and the same sign.  The occurrences are so many sinsigns.
      The one word is a legisign.  It is not indefinite, like chiaroscuro
      in general.

            In their relations to their objects, signs are divisible in two
      ways, according as we have in view the object as it is or the object as
      represented.  The former division is merely into signs of possibilities,
      signs of existents, and signs of types.  The other division is more
      important.  It is into, {add}1st{/add} first, icons, or these signs which represent
      their objects by virtue of a resemblance or analogy with them, such as
                                      [a, b, c,   ]
      a mathematical diagram, say     [a', b', c' ]     to represent their objects
                                      [a'', b'', c'']
      by virtue of being connected with them in fact, like a clock, or a
      barometer, a weather cock, a photograph, etc. [The photograph involves
      an icon, as indeed do very many indices, while on the other hand draw-
      ings, portraits in so far as they afford information do so because it
      is known that they actually imitated the natural objects and as such
      they are indices, not icons.  But if you draw a fancy picture of a
      man with certain physiognomical peculiarities in order to see what
      sort of an impression of such a man's disposition you will get in
      this way, or if you construct a geometrical diagram according to a
      certain precept and observe certain relations between its parts which