12.

No. 12.  On the Definition of Logic.

Logi[hand: c] will here be defined as formal semiotic.  A defini-
tion of a sign will be given which no more refers to human thought
than does the definition of a line as the place which a particle oc-
cupies, part by part, during a lapse of time.  Namely, a sign is some-
thing, A, which brings something, B, its interpretant sign determined
or created by it, into the same sort of correspondence with something,
C, its object, as that in which itself stands to C.  It is from this
definition, together with a definition of "formal", that I deduce
mathematically the principles of logic.  I also make a historical re-
view of all the definitions and conceptions of logic, and show not
merely that my definition is no novelty, but that my non-psychological
conception of logic has virtually been quite generally held, though
not generally recognised.

Foot Note.

My order of arrangement of the first eleven memoirs is subject to re-
consideration.  The categories are applicable to the logical analysis
of Mathematics.  It is even a question whether this fact does not de-
range my classification, although I have carefully considered it,
and have provisionally concluded that it does not.  It further seems
to me better to let the categories first emerge in the mathematical
memoirs before explicitly considering them.  This is a question of
methodeutic, which is not so exact in its conclusions as is critical
logic.  I think the arrangement I here propose is favorable to
the reception of the categories.  But if I were to decide to post-
pone the mathematical memoirs until after the categories, they might
better be placed last among the first eleven memoirs.  In that case,
also, and indeed in any case, it might be well to place the memoir on
the logical conception of mind before that upon Esthetics and Ethics.
The present arrangement has been pretty carefully considered; and the
last transposition is the only one that I think there is much likli-
hood of my deciding upon.  After No. 12, the only changes possible
are shifts of boundaries in order to equalise the lengths of memoirs.