                              -2-

a great loss to the world if those of his researches which have not yet been put

into final shape, do not receive the finishing touches, and are not published.

Had I the means, I should cheerfully pay the cost of securing the completion and

publication of what I still hope to see him do, and should deem a considerable

personal sacrifice for such an end well repaid by the scientific and philosophical

results that I should confidently expect to receive from him.

     From the point of view of the interests of Logic, of Philosophy in general,and

of all students of general science, I am therefore sure that Mr. Peirce's researches

in the mentioned fields are thoroughly worthy of whatever endowment is necessary to

secure the effective revision, the final preparation, and the publication, of his

still incomplete work in Logic, whether it be printed as one whole, or in separate

memoirs.

     Mr. Peirce has submitted to me the plan of his proposed definitive treatise on

Logic.  It could equally well be published I think as a series of memoirs, owing

to the number and variety of the topics.

     As to Mr. Peirce's need of assistance in order to complete the proposed work,

there seems to be no doubt.  Here of course plainness of speech is necessary.

Mr. Peirce is a worker whose personal eccentricities are not unknown to you.  He

has never been able to fit into the official plans of other men for any great length

of time.  He has not been either the most frugal or the most provident of scholars.

He is now obliged to earn a living by various literary andother tasks that do not

contribute to science.  He lives more or less from hand to mouth, and probably has

no savings.  He is past sixty years of age.  While he seems still capable of rapid

and skillful production, his powers cannot indefinitely continue to respond to the

calls made upon him.  Unless he is aided to complete what I regard as his great

task, his later results will be lost to the world.  What I have lately seen of

these results convinces me more than ever that they ought not to be lost.