[hand: Royce is the Greatest metaphysician now living
and one of the half dozen best logicians,]

Copy.

103 Irving St., Cambridge, Mass. March 26, 1902.

D.C. Gilman, L.L.D.
        President, Carnegie Institution.

Dear Mr. Gilman;

        I have been intending for some time to write to you regarding
the work of Mr. Charles S. Peirce, the logician, whose character as an investiga-
tor, and whose need of assistance in his scientific work, we discussed at our
last interview.  Since I saw you I have had the opportunity to read two chapters
of a projected, but still incomplete work of Mr. Peirce on Logic.  I am able to
give, in consequence, a very much more decided statement than was possible when I
saw you, regarding the value and prospects of Mr. Peirce’s enterprise.

        Mr. Charles Peirce has now been for many years the principal representative
in this country of a type of investigation in Logic which seems to me, as a stu-
dent of the subject, to be of very great importance.  The general nature of this
importance I can best indicate by saying that the study of the methods of science
and the comparative study of the types of concepts which have been developed in
the various sciences, seem to be at present matters of great theoretical and
practical significance, and Mr. Peirce’s methods work seem to me to promise
very great results for both these types of study.  What Mr. Peirce has already
done in his various papers on the Algebra of Logic, on the Logic of Relatives,
and on the theory of the Categories,- papers which are numerous, although widely
scattered,- has wrought quite a revolution in the study of exact logic.  Upon his
results Schroeder’s monumental, and still unfinished, Algebra der Logik is found-
ed.  Mr. Peirce’s theory of induction,- still another of his topics of research,-
is original and highly important.  Few men have the mastery that he possesses over
the wide field of the comparative and historical study of the methods of various
sciences.  He unites in his work the training and the exactness of a mathematician
with the speculative ingenuity of a really great philosopher.  It will be a great