                              Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, Mass.

                                      January 1, 1903.

My dear Sir:

                         I learn that friends of your brother, Mr.
          Charles S. Peirce, have brought before the Trustees of the
          Carnegie Institution the question of aiding in the publica-
          tion of the results of his philosophical studies.  The
          question will, I hope, receive careful consideration and
          a favorable answer from the Trustees.  I know of no oppor-
          tunity for the encouragement of research likely to be more
          wide-reaching in its ultimate influence than this; none more
          timely, the state of philosophical opinion being what it is;
          and none to which from its nature aid is more essential.
          An intellect more penetrating and powerful than your broth-
          er's it has not been my fortune to encounter, nor to hear of
          among the living; and it is a mind that for a lifetime has
          followed its own chosen and lofty paths without deviation.
          Mr. Peirce's many studies upon ultimate truths and upon the
          conditions of the search after truth have been written upon
          occasion, and lie scattered in various periodicals.  Were
          their real importance generally understood, all those who
          have at heart the higher interests of the country and the
          race would wish to be assured of their publication as a body
          of doctrine.  I sincerely trust that through the aid of the
          Carnegie Institution Mr. Peirce may have freedom to crown
          his labors by the connected expression of their results.

                    I beg to remain, very sincerely yours,

                                      Benj. Ives Gilman,

Hon. Herbert H.D. Peirce,
        Department of State.

[hand: ✓]

[hand: One of my pupils & a thoroughly first-class man Extremely modest & therefore little known.]