MS. 811                                      27

OF ARTS AND SCIENCES: APRIL 9, 1867.        283

S′ for Σ′ S′ and P′ for Π′ P′ we obtain formulæ of probable in-
ference.  This reasoning gives no determinate probability to these
modes of inference, but it is necessary to consider that, however
weak synthetic inference might have been at first, yet if it had
the least positive tendency to produce truth, it would continually
become stronger, owing to the establishment of more and more
secure premises.
  The rules for valid induction and hypothesis deducible from this
theory are as follows:—
  1. The explaining syllogism, that is to say, the deductive syllogism
one of whose premises is inductively or hypothetically inferred from
the other and from its conclusion, must be valid.
  2. The conclusion is not to be held as absolutely true, but only
until it can be shown that, in the case of induction, S′ was taken from
some narrower class than M, or, in the case of hypothesis, that P′ was
taken from some higher class than M.
  3. From the last rule it follows as a corollary that in the case of
induction the subject of the premises must be a sum of subjects, and
that in the case of hypothesis the predicate of the premises must be a
conjunction of predicates.
  4. Also, that this aggregate must be of different objects or qualities
and not of mere names.
  5. Also, that the only principle upon which the instanced subjects
or predicates can be selected is that of belonging to M.*

* Positivism, apart from its theory of history and of the relations between the
sciences, is distinguished from other doctrines by the manner in which it regards
hypotheses.  Almost all men think that metaphysical theories are valueless, be-
cause metaphysicians differ so much among themselves; but the positivists give
another reason, namely, that these theories violate the sole condition of all legiti-
mate hypothesis.  This condition is that every good hypothesis must be such as
is certainly capable of subsequent verification with the degree of certainty proper
to the conclusions of the branch of science to which it belongs.  There is, it seems
to me, a confusion here between the probability of a hypothesis in itself, and its
admissibility into any one of those bodies of doctrine which have received distinct
names, or have been admitted into a scheme of the sciences, and which admit only
conclusions which have a very high probability indeed.  I have here to deal with
the rule only so far as it is a general canon of the legitimacy of hypotheses, and not
so far as it determines their relevancy to a particular science; and I shall, therefore,
consider only another common statement of it; namely, “that no hypothesis is
admissible which is not capable of verification by direct observation.”  The positivist
regards all hypothesis, not as an inference, but as a device for stimulating and