-284          PROCEEDINGS OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY

Hence the formulæ are
                         Induction.
        S' S'' S''', &c. are taken at random as M's,
             S' S'' S''', &c. are P ;
        ∴ Any M is probably P.

directing observation.  But I have shown above that certain premises will render an
hypothesis probable, so that there is such a thing as legitimate hypothetic inference.
It may be replied that such conclusions are not hypotheses, but inductions.  That the
sense in which I have used “hypothesis” is supported by good usage, I could prove by
a hundred authorities.  The following is from Kant: “An hypothesis is the holding
for true of the judgment of the truth of a reason on account of the sufficiency of its
consequents.”  Mill’s definition (Logic, Book III. Ch. XIV. § 4) also nearly coin-
cides with mine.  Moreover, an hypothesis in every sense is an inference, because it is
adopted for some reason, good or bad, and that reason, in being regarded as such,
is regarded as lending the hypothesis some plausibility.  The arguments which I
term hypothetic are certainly not inductions, for induction is reasoning from par-
ticulars to generals, and this does not take place in these cases.  The positivist
canon for hypotheses is neither sufficient nor necessary.  If it is granted that hy-
potheses are inferred, it will hardly be questioned that the observed facts must
follow apodictically from the hypothesis without the aid of subsidiary hypotheses,
and that the characters of that which is predicated in the hypothesis, and from which
the inference is drawn, must be taken as they occur, and not be picked out in order
to make a plausible argument.  That the maxim of the positivists is superfluous
or worse, is shown, first, by the fact that it is not implied in the proof that hypothetic
inference is valid; and next, by the absurdities to which it gives rise when strictly
applied to history, which is entirely hypothetical, and is absolutely incapable of
verification by direct observation.  To this last argument I know of but two
answers: first, that this pushes the rule further than was intended, it being con-
sidered that history has already been so verified; and second, that the positivist
does not pretend to know the world as it absolutely exists, but only the world which
appears to him.  To the first answer, the rejoinder is that a rule must be pushed
to its logical consequences in all cases, until it can be shown that some of these cases
differ in some material respect from the others.  To the second answer, the re-
joinder is double: first, that I mean no more by “is” than the positivist by
“appears” in the sense in which he uses it in saying that only what “appears” is
known, so that the answer is irrelevant; second, that positivists, like the rest of
the world, reject historic testimony sometimes, and in doing so distinguish hy-
pothetically between what is and what in some other sense appears, and yet have
no means of verifying the distinction by direct observation.

Another error in reference to hypothesis is, that the antecedent probability of what
is testified to cannot affect the probability of the testimony of a good witness.  This
is as much as to say that probable arguments can neither support nor weaken one
another.  Mr. Venn goes so far as to maintain the impossibility of a conflict of
probabilities.  The difficulty is instantly removed by admitting indeterminate
probabilities.